*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK 56197 ***

Transcriber’s Note: All errors are the authors’ own.




BOOKS BY OLIVER HERFORD


_WITH PICTURES BY THE AUTHOR_

PUBLISHED BY CHARLES SCRIBNER’S SONS

    THE BASHFUL EARTHQUAKE                                   $1.25

    A CHILD’S PRIMER OF NATURAL HISTORY                      $1.25

    OVERHEARD IN A GARDEN                                    $1.25

    MORE ANIMALS                                      _net_, $1.00

    THE RUBAIYAT OF A PERSIAN KITTEN                  _net_, $1.00

    THE FAIRY GODMOTHER-IN-LAW                        _net_, $1.00

    A LITTLE BOOK OF BORES                            _net_, $1.00

    THE PETER PAN ALPHABET                            _net_, $1.00

    THE ASTONISHING TALE OF A PEN-AND-INK PUPPET      _net_, $1.00

    A KITTEN’S GARDEN OF VERSES     (_postage extra_) _net_, $1.00

_WITH JOHN CECIL CLAY_

    CUPID’S CYCLOPEDIA                                _net_, $1.00

    CUPID’S FAIR-WEATHER BOOKE      (_postage extra_) _net_, $1.00




CUPID’S FAIR-WEATHER BOOKE

[Illustration]

[Illustration]




                                 CUPID’S
                              FAIR-WEATHER
                                  BOOKE

                             _Including An_

                                ALMANACK
                            FOR ANY TWO YEARS
                   (True Love Ought To Last That Long)

                          _By_ JOHN CECIL CLAY
                          _and_ OLIVER HERFORD

                       _Direction of_ DANIEL CUPID

                             [Illustration]

                   Published for _ye Publick Goode_ by
                         Charles Scribner’s Sons
                                New York

[Illustration: Copyright 1911 by Charles Scribner’s Sons]




[Illustration]

To All Good Hearticulturists

[Illustration]




AUTHORS’ NOTE


In bringing out this, the second volume of the Cupid’s Almanack, we have
deemed it advisable to devote our principal effort to informing you, Good
Hearticulturists, just what the conditions of the elements will be at the
various seasons. This is of the greatest importance, and the success of
your work depends largely upon the judgment used in selecting the time to
begin.

Enthusiasm is necessary but do not be too impetuous for many a failure
has come from rushing ahead while yet conditions are too cold and many a
Hope Vine has been killed by a late frost.

If you have started your work indoors do not be in too great haste to
set out; young plants need a great deal of warmth and attention and can
stand extremely high temperature, while very little cold is apt to be
fatal.

In Hearticulture so much depends on—whether?

[Illustration: O. Herford

John Cecil Clay]

[Illustration]




JANUARY


[Illustration: _Acquarius_]

The Water-bearer

[Illustration: SPRING WATER]

THE WATER-MAN

    When I consider how I spent my days,
      And mind me of the reckless race I ran,
    I am resolved that I will mend my ways,
      And swear henceforth to be a Water-man.

[Illustration: PLEDGE]

[Illustration]

CUPID’S FORECAST

JANUARY

General depression, caused by Brain-storms of December. This is succeeded
by a wave of Good Resolutions, accompanied by a general downpour of Ice
Water. The cold wave may be counted upon to pass quickly, being followed
by brighter days and a Rising Glass.

[Illustration]




FEBRUARY


[Illustration: _Pisces_]

The Fishes

[Illustration]

THE FISHES

    Now forth to fish goes good Saint Valentine,
      And baits his gentle hook with tender wishes,
    Cupid has lent his bow for rod and line.
      Alas! Our time has come—we are the fishes.

CUPID’S FORECAST

FEBRUARY

Generally frigid airs, varied by storms and melting spells, with
changing temperature until the Fourteenth, when a soft wave will sweep
over the country accompanied by sentimental Mail Storms, resulting in a
general rise of temperament and a happier atmosphere. Husbandmen who are
cultivating matrimony will be much troubled through this month by the
squally nights.

[Illustration]




MARCH


[Illustration: _Aries_]

The Ram

[Illustration]

THE RAM

    The wind is like to a Rampageous Ram,
      That rushes to and fro and round about.
    I speed my parting hat with futile damn,
      As my umbrella turneth inside out.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

CUPID’S FORECAST

MARCH

Marked coldness, followed by windy sighs, culminating in stormy bluster.
Alternate Frostiness and Melting. A depressing month and one to test the
intensity of the heart gardener. All but the hardiest plants must be
given extreme attention, and many gardeners, to avoid the danger of a
frost, sit up far into the night with their favorite plants during this
month. But at the best it is apt to be chilly and unpleasant going. The
month ends in calm, indifferent weather.

[Illustration]




APRIL


[Illustration: _Taurus_]

The Bull

[Illustration]

THE BULL

    Thro’ melting clouds the ever-gaining Sun
      Predicts a rise in Summer’s stock to-day.
    The Bears of Winter now are on the run,
      The Bull of Spring o’er April’s Bourse holds sway.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

CUPID’S FORECAST

APRIL

Less cold but very changeable. Brief intervals of smiling weather,
succeeded by frowning clouds and petulant showers. Sudden storms,
accompanied by floods of tears, which dry rapidly as warmer feeling
prevails. The first Spring Hats begin to come out and the mewing of Pussy
Willow is heard in the land. The month will end with soft, engaging
weather.

[Illustration]




MAY


[Illustration: _Gemini_]

The Twins

[Illustration]

THE TWINS

    Winter the Dotard, fool’d by April’s tears,
      Is fain to linger in the lap of Spring,
    When, with her tall twin brothers, May appears,
      And bids him have no thought of such a thing.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

CUPID’S FORECAST

MAY

Small birds will begin house-hunting and set the fashion by choosing
mates. Soft airs prevail and the skies are rosy. The first leaflets of
Spring poetry begin to come out. Occasional warm showers, melting hearts
and budding friendships. A few sharp storms, followed by bright making-up
weather.

[Illustration]




JUNE


[Illustration: _Cancer_]

The Crab

[Illustration]

THE CRAB

    Since it is written “Crabbed Age and Youth
      Cannot together live,” now strange to tell,
    The crusty Crab for love of June’s sweet tooth
      Lays down his life and doffs his armored shell.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

CUPID’S FORECAST

JUNE

Depression in heart areas, relieved by brief storms which clear the air.
A wave of tenderness over all the heart regions, followed by a general
warm feeling and the glad ringing of church bells. If you are going
to cultivate Matrimony this year, now is the time to begin. Flowery
sentiments abound. Increasing warmth produces an atmosphere charged with
restlessness in the thickly peopled heart centres. Unsettled weather and
clouds, melting away in epistolary showers.

[Illustration]




JULY


[Illustration: _Leo_]

The Lion

[Illustration]

THE LION

    See how the Lion rages in July
      And shakes his mane and walketh up and down,
    And roars for hunger. Shall I tell you why?
      The folk who feed him all are out of town.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

CUPID’S FORECAST

JULY

General seaward movement in the air, followed by ocean breezes and
heavily charged Hotel Atmosphere. Waves of hot air, principally on the
beaches and hotel piazzas. Engaging weather everywhere, with intervals
of changeableness. Cooler airs and tempermentary depression, which are
followed by clearing skies and renewed warm pressure.

[Illustration]




AUGUST


[Illustration: _Virgo_]

The Virgin

[Illustration]

THE VIRGIN

    Come maidens all, for grace or beauty known,
      Behold your queen in virgin majesty—
    The Summer Girl, who sits on August’s throne
      And holds her court beside the laughing sea.

[Illustration]

[Illustration: _The Sands Of Time_]

CUPID’S FORECAST

AUGUST

Cupid’s Shooting Season is at its height. Steady weather. Bright skies
and continued prevalence of Hot Air. A few storms, violent, but of short
duration, and ending in still warmer conditions. Towards the end of the
month a slightly depressed atmosphere, but the month will end with a
sunlit sea and warm waves. The barometer will register very warm, close
weather, and many hearts hitherto unaffected will melt. Look out for
Moonstroke and Heartburn.

[Illustration]




SEPTEMBER


[Illustration: _Libra_]

The Scales

[Illustration]

THE SCALES

    Careful September doth exactly weigh,
      Upon her balance, equal Night and Day;
    But when I make my reckoning in the Fall
      I find there is no “balance” there at all.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

CUPID’S FORECAST

SEPTEMBER

Somewhat cooler feeling, and petulent storms more prevalent. Engaging
weather becomes unsettled and breaks up. General moistness, followed
by downpours, clearing up in some quarters, but generally cloudy and
depressed, and the landscape will wear a gloomy and lonely appearance.

[Illustration]




OCTOBER


[Illustration: _Scorpio_]

The Scorpion

[Illustration]

THE SCORPION

    ’Tis said the Scorpion, when hemmed in by Fire,
      Mocking the flames, will do herself to death.
    So Summer dying smiles upon her pyre
      Of maples fanned to flame by Autumn’s breath.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

CUPID’S FORECAST

OCTOBER

Slight return of warmer conditions but varying and unreliable. End of the
month chilly. The first frost. The leaves of the Time Table begin to turn
rapidly. This may be taken as a sign of a change and is followed by a
return to a dense, high pressure atmosphere.

[Illustration]




NOVEMBER


[Illustration: Sagittarius]

The Archer

[Illustration]

THE ARCHER

    I hear the singing of his cyprus bow
      As comes the Archer down the lonely ways,
    Through my sad heart his mournful arrows go,
      Winged with the memories of Summer days.

[Illustration]

[Illustration: _Gone!_]

CUPID’S FORECAST

NOVEMBER

Dull feeling in the air. Unpleasant underfoot for Hearts. Dark, cloudy
outlook, with small hope of clearing up. Heavy rain of bills, followed by
many terrible male storms. Weather brightens slightly, but stuffy towards
Thanksgiving. High winds follow, caused by everyone complaining at once
about the weather.

[Illustration]




DECEMBER


[Illustration: _Capricorn_]

The Goat

[Illustration]

THE GOAT

    Frolic of foot yet bearded like a sage,
      The Goat may stand for Jovial Old Age.
    His horns are horns of plenty and good cheer,
      He is the jolly MASCOT of the year.

[Illustration]

[Illustration: Pattern of a nice Christmas present for a young man

A good pattern for making up at any time]

CUPID’S FORECAST

DECEMBER

Brighter. Very cold for those outside, but warm on the inside, where
there is a tendency to Hot Air. The cheerful sounds of Kissing Larks are
heard under the mistletoe branches. Bracing weather everywhere. Excellent
for skates, and good slaying for Cupid. About the 25th of the month a
terrific shower of gifts and good wishes may be looked for. The month
will end in violent Brain Storms.

[Illustration]




ADDENDA

[Illustration]


NOTE

For many years the question has been much discussed as to the value, to
Hearticulturists, of Moonlight as a plant food.

From our own experiments we have found it of the greatest help and a
decided stimulant to the Engagement Vines; the Proposal Plant invariably,
although seemingly on the point of bursting into flower, defers its
blossoming until a moonlight night; while our Hammock Vines have lost
half their sweetness when Moonlight has not been supplied them. On the
other hand, our Porch Climbers have not done so well with Moonlight.


TIDES

Their are two kinds of Tides, the Tied and the Untied. Most of the Tied
would rather be Untied and all of the Untied want to be Tied—and they
will. (This is life.)

All through the Spring months the Untied will be very active, in fact,
until the full of the late June Moon, known as the “Honeymoon,” after
which time a tremendous increase may be noticed in the Tieds. This is
often spoken of as “the Swell of the Tied.”

Through the summer months the Tieds will run smoothly (often because they
are far apart).

With Fall, however, many Tieds will be again united and it will be cold
and squally and there will be very large bill owes and storms.

But through it all the dear old Gulp Stream will ever flow merrily on,
dispensing Warmth, Good Cheer and Forgetfulness.

Some famous Tiedal waves have been:

    Brigham Young
    Venus
    Blue Beard
    Solomon


RESOLUTIONS _for the_ ENSUING YEAR

    _Resolved_: __________________________________

    ______________________________________________

    ______________________________________________

    ______________________________________________

    ______________________________________________

    ______________________________________________

    ______________________________________________

    ______________________________________________

    ______________________________________________

    ______________________________________________

    ______________________________________________

    _Above resolution broken_:

    _Date_:

    ______________________________________________

    O, WELL!

[Illustration]





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Cupid's Fair-Weather Booke, by 
Oliver Herford and John Cecil Clay

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK 56197 ***
